Transformation of a word, which happens as a regular language transformation is 
known as Morphological process. In this, stem gets changed to adjust the meaning 
to fit its communicational and syntactic context. In English, mainly there are 3 
morphological processes:-

1. Inflection -
In Inflection, a word from a lexical class is transformed into other related word 
in the same class. Suffix or prefix can be added or changed to do this transformation.
Examples are- dog -> dogs, work -> works etc.

2. Derivation -
In Derivation, a word from a lexical class is transformed into other related word 
in a different class. In this also, Suffix or prefix can be added or changed to do 
this transformation. Eg. accept, which is a verb can be transformed to acceptable, 
which is an adjective, by derivation.

3. Compounding -
In Compounding, generally a new word is created by combining two or more words. 
Example - one word foot and other word path can be combined to create a new 
word footpath.


Brief description of Derivation :-

It is a transformation in which a word from a lexical class is transformed into 
a related word in a different class. In terms of regularity, it is less regular 
than inflection. The difference between derivation and inflection is that in 
inflection a word is modified to form different grammatical categories without 
changing its core meaning i.e. it makes grammatical variants of the same word 
but derivation produces a new word i.e. a distinct lexeme. Addition of derivational 
suffix or other affix is done in derivation. Such affixes are generally applied to 
words of a lexical category and changes them into words of some other category.

Eg. the derivational suffix "ly" in English language generally changes adjectives 
into adverbs like the word slow is transformed into another word slowly. However, 
in few cases, a derivation can also be used for transforming a word in one lexical 
class to other word in the same lexical class, but this word is significantly a 
different word. Eg. the word red to other word redish is a derivation. Other examples 
include -
noun to verb: glory -> glorify
noun to adjective: recreation -> recreational
adjective to verb: modern -> modernise
adjective to noun: slow -> slowness
verb to adjective: drink -> drinkable
etc.







References-
https://web.cs.dal.ca/~vlado/csci6509/notes/nlp07.pdf
http://www-01.sil.org/linguistics/glossaryoflinguisticterms/WhatIsAMorphologicalProcess.htm
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Morphological_derivation